For the 2001 model year Honda released an upgraded version of the popular CBR600F4 
with intentions of becoming more competitive in the middleweight sport bike class. 
The 370 lb (170 kg) (dry) F4i is a modified F4 with numerous engine, chassis and 
bodywork changes.


The single largest change aside from the styling is the addition of high-pressure 
(50 psi) programmed fuel injection — thus the model designation "F4i". In a number 
of countries, the bike was sold in both the "normal" and "Sport" variants, the 
Sport having a two-part seat, no grab rail and no main stand (though the main stand 
mounting holes remained). Fuel injection allows for more precise fuel metering and 
delivery over a wider rpm range, while providing better throttle response and 
reducing emissions. The injectors reside one per cylinder and work with 38 mm 
throttle bodies. Each injector has four nozzles, and together the injectors add up 
to five horsepower over the F4.


Weight was also reduced. The rear wheel was made 400 grams lighter, the cush drive 600 grams, and the front wheel 300 grams. The wheel bearings have been moved outward, closer to the fork tubes, and the rotor carriers moved out closer to the brake calipers to reduce weight and to improve rigidity. Each caliper carrier also lost 100 grams. There is additional bracing on the steering head for more response, better feedback and feel from the front end. The suspension has also been tweaked with less high-speed damping and a little more low-speed damping. The wheelbase is five millimeters shorter than its predecessor, with a 5.9-percent increase in overall rigidity.

Additional engine changes include a lighter camshaft sprocket and increased valve spring pressure (two springs per intake valve) which allow for higher revving. There are new piston rings that slide with less friction and increased internal engine oil flow. Redline is now 14,200 rpm, 700 rpm higher than the previous year's F4. To increase the bike's pulling capabilities at high speeds, 5th and 6th gears have been shortened slightly and the rear sprocket was enlarged from 45 teeth to 46. The oiling holes in the camshafts have been enlarged by 0.5 mm (to 2.5 mm) and piston ring friction has been decreased to aid cooling at the higher rev ceiling. Spring pressures on the intake and exhaust valves have been increased to avoid valve float. Also, there are now two valve springs (inner and outer) on the intake side instead of the single item that resides on the exhaust side.

In 2003, Honda introduced the CBR600RR, a higher-performance, race-ready, super-sport middleweight, while continuing to manufacture the popular F4i which appealed to those willing to sacrifice a little performance to gain a more comfortable riding position, as well as an engine configuration better suited to everyday riding. The F4i remained available for three more years before being discontinued, with the 2006 model being the final one to be released. In 2006 the Honda CBR600F4i retailed for US$8,499. No major updates were made in these final years except for color scheme changes.